.\" CarrierPress - Developed by M6VPN (M6VPN@tuta.com)
.\" carrierpress/docs/carrierpress.1
.Dd June 22, 2026
.Dt CARRIERPRESS 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm carrierpress
.Nd AM and SSB baseband audio processor foundation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl -version
.Nm
.Fl -self-test
.Op processing options
.Nm
.Fl -input Ar input.wav
.Fl -output Ar output.wav
.Op processing options
.Nm
.Fl -play Ar input.wav
.Op Fl -output-device Ar N
.Op Fl -tui | Fl -gui
.Op processing options
.Nm
.Fl -playlist Ar playlist.txt
.Op Fl -output-device Ar N
.Op Fl -tui | Fl -gui
.Op processing options
.Nm
.Fl -live
.Op Fl -input-device Ar N
.Op Fl -output-device Ar N
.Op Fl -sample-rate Ar HZ
.Op Fl -channels Ar N
.Op Fl -block-size Ar FRAMES
.Op Fl -tui | Fl -gui
.Op processing options
.Nm
.Fl -cat-backend Cm none | mock | flrig | hamlib
.Fl -cat-status
.Op CAT options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a clean-room C17 audio processor foundation for AM and SSB baseband audio
chains. It can run deterministic self-tests, process WAV files when built with
libsndfile, process live host audio when built with PortAudio or sndio, play WAV
files to a host output device when built with libsndfile and PortAudio, and
display monitor state through optional ncurses TUI or SDL3 GUI frontends.
.Pp
.Nm
does not generate RF, certify transmitter compliance, provide regulatory
approval, or implement PTT control. Users remain responsible for licence
limits, occupied bandwidth, station-control requirements, transmitter limits,
and local radio rules.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -version
Print the CarrierPress version and exit.
.It Fl -self-test
Run a deterministic synthetic audio test through the current configured chain.
.It Fl -input Ar input.wav Fl -output Ar output.wav
Process a WAV file in fixed-size blocks. Requires a build with
.Dv WITH_SNDFILE=1 .
.It Fl -play Ar input.wav
Play one WAV file through the processing chain to a host output device. Requires
a build with
.Dv WITH_SNDFILE=1
and
.Dv WITH_PORTAUDIO=1 .
.It Fl -playlist Ar playlist.txt
Play a text playlist of WAV files through the processing chain.
.It Fl -live
Run live host audio processing.
.It Fl -list-devices
List available live audio devices.
.It Fl -tui
Use the optional ncurses monitor. Requires
.Dv WITH_TUI=1 .
.It Fl -gui
Use the optional SDL3 monitor. Requires
.Dv WITH_GUI=1 .
.It Fl -gui-demo
Run the deterministic GUI monitor demo.
.It Fl -gui-demo-screenshot Ar path
Render one deterministic GUI monitor frame to a BMP file.
.It Fl -cat-status
Print one read-only CAT status snapshot and exit.
.El
.Sh PROCESSING OPTIONS
Common processing options include:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -dehummer Fl -hum-frequency Cm 50 | 60 Fl -hum-harmonics Ar N
Enable fixed-frequency hum notches.
.It Fl -analyze
Enable the restoration analyzer tap.
.It Fl -declipper
Enable the conservative declipper research stage.
.It Fl -natural-dynamics
Enable the natural dynamics stage.
.It Fl -low-level-boost
Enable the low-level boost stage.
.It Fl -multiband
Enable the first multiband compressor foundation.
.It Fl -bass-eq
Enable static bass EQ.
.It Fl -am Fl -am-preset Cm am-safe | am-shortwave | am-wide | am-voice
Enable AM baseband audio output shaping.
.It Fl -ssb Fl -ssb-preset Cm ssb-speech | ssb-narrow | ssb-wide
Enable SSB baseband audio output shaping.
.El
.Sh CAT STATUS
CAT support is read-only in this release. The
.Cm mock ,
.Cm flrig ,
and
.Cm hamlib
backends can report frequency, mode, and PTT state for display. They do not key
a transmitter, set frequency, set mode, or send transmit commands.
.Sh VALIDATION
Run the base validation profile before a local release:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
make release-check
.Ed
.Pp
Useful individual checks are:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
make
make test
make -j test
make validate
make quality
make professional-check
.Ed
.Sh EXAMPLES
Print the installed version:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
carrierpress --version
.Ed
.Pp
Run the built-in self-test:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
carrierpress --self-test
.Ed
.Pp
Process a WAV file:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
carrierpress --input input.wav --output output.wav
.Ed
.Pp
Play a WAV file through output device 19:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
carrierpress --play input.wav --output-device 19
.Ed
.Pp
Run live audio with the TUI:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
carrierpress --live --tui
.Ed
.Pp
Print mock CAT status:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
carrierpress --cat-backend mock --cat-frequency-hz 14230000 --cat-mode USB --cat-ptt off --cat-status
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pkg-config 1 ,
.Xr make 1
.Pp
Project documentation is installed with the source tree under
.Pa docs/ .
